Update all py2wasm to componentize-py (#1264)
fermyon/developer: content/cloud/develop.md

{{ startTab "Python" }}

You may have see a `py2wasm` plugin in your travels. Please note, `py2wasm` (an experiment to build a Spin Python SDK using CPython, Wizer, and PyO3) has since been replaced by Componentize-Py. The process of getting your system ready to write Wasm-powered Python applications is as follows:

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
# As shown above, we install the Python SDK (which provides us with Spin's http-py tempate)
$ spin templates install --git https://github.com/fermyon/spin-python-sdk --update
```

> Once we have the above `spin-python-sdk` installed we can scaffold out a new App using the `http-py` template. The scaffolded App has a `requirements.txt` file that facilitates the installation of `spin-sdk` and `componentize-py`. While you could manually install these using Pip, the `requirements.txt` file has the appropriate version numbers set making the process quicker and also more robust. Let's create a new Spin app and run harness the `requirements.txt`:

Reviewer: This doesn't install the `spin-python-sdk` - it installs the Spin template(s) _from the `spin-python-sdk` repository_.

Author: Thanks @itowlson.

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash

> # We then create our App using http-py

Author: Thanks @itowlson 
Short answer: I just wrote App instead of App (and now making `app` consistent across the board).
Thanks for flagging this.

$ spin new -t http-py hello-python --accept-defaults
```

Once the component is created, we can change into the `hello-python` directory, create and activate a virtual environment and then install the component's requirements:

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
# Change into the App directory
$ cd hello-python
```

Create a virtual environment directory (we are still inside the Spin app directory):

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```console
# python<version> -m venv <virtual-environment-name>
$ python3 -m venv venv-dir
```

Activate the virtual environment (this command depends on which operating system you are using):

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```console
# macOS command to activate
$ source venv-dir/bin/activate
```

The `(venv-dir)` will prefix your terminal prompt now:

<!-- @nocpy -->

```console
(venv-dir) user@123-456-7-8 hello-python %
```

The `requirements.txt`, by default, contains the references to the `spin-sdk` and `componentize-py` packages. These can be installed in your virtual environment using the following command:

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
# Now we can install Componentize-Py and the Spin SDK via the requirements file

> $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt 

Author: I just did a quick test. It looks like the `<!-- @selectiveCpy -->` needs the `$ command` format to allow the user to copy the command.

{{ startTab "Python" }}

> > Historic: You may have see a `py2wasm` plugin in your travels. Please note, `py2wasm` (an experiment to build a Spin Python SDK using CPython, Wizer, and PyO3) has since been replaced by `componentize-py`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Historic: You may have seen a `py2wasm` plugin in your travels. Please note, `py2wasm` has since been replaced by `componentize-py`. 
```

The process of getting your system ready to write Wasm-powered Python applications, using `componentize-py` is as follows:

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash

> # As shown above, we install the Python SDK (which provides us with Spin's http-py tempate)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# As shown above, we install the Python SDK (which provides us with Spin's http-py template)
```

$ spin templates install --git https://github.com/fermyon/spin-python-sdk --update
```

> Once we have the Spin template(s) from the `spin-python-sdk` repository we can scaffold out a new app. For this example, we will be using the `http-py` template. The scaffolded app, that the `http-py` template creates, has a `requirements.txt` file that facilitates the installation of `spin-sdk` and `componentize-py`. While you could manually install these using Pip, the `requirements.txt` file has the appropriate version numbers set making the process quicker and also more robust. Let's create a new Spin app and run harness the `requirements.txt`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have the Spin template(s) from the `spin-python-sdk` repository we can scaffold out a new app. For this example, we will be using the `http-py` template. The scaffolded app, that the `http-py` template creates, has a `requirements.txt` file that facilitates the installation of `spin-sdk` and `componentize-py`. While you could manually install these using Pip, the `requirements.txt` file has the appropriate version numbers set making the process quicker and also more robust. Let's create a new Spin app and install the contents of `requirements.txt`:
```

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
# We then create our app using http-py
$ spin new -t http-py hello-python --accept-defaults
```

Once the component is created, we can change into the `hello-python` directory, create and activate a virtual environment and then install the component's requirements:

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```bash
# Change into the app directory
$ cd hello-python
```

Create a virtual environment directory (we are still inside the Spin app directory):

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```console
# python<version> -m venv <virtual-environment-name>
$ python3 -m venv venv-dir
```

Activate the virtual environment (this command depends on which operating system you are using):

<!-- @selectiveCpy -->

```console

> # macOS command to activate

Reviewer: I think I saw elsewhere this is the Linux one too?

Author: Ah, yes. Right, you are.

```bash
$ spin build
Building component hello-python with `componentize-py -w spin-http componentize app -o app.wasm`
Component built successfully
Finished building all Spin components
```

If the build fails, check:

> * Are you in the `hello-python` directory?

Reviewer: Oh! The other thing to check is are you in the virtual environment. I'm not sure if that's the exact phrasing - Karthik or Joel will know though

(ETA: I see you already have this and other words in the quickstart - could copy those?)

Author: Good call; updated now.
